DataBase:

1. IP : where the db is running
2. port : Mongodb 27017

sql vs nosql:
1. Sql databases like mysql and oracle they have strict constraints like foreign key and primary key they work best in systems like library management sysms, employee managements systems and even in commerce management systems.
2. In case of no sql there i sno schema and no contrainsts example mongodb and mongodb atlas.
3. however to connect a mern stack applicaion to mongodb we need an extra layer of mongoose.

Traditionallly we create a dataase and the the table then insert records. --DD firt approach
As for now we just create the database and tale are created programatically using ORMs
We also nedd migration tools

Real life Analogy:
RDBMS(SQL)          MongoDB(NoSql)
database            database
table               collection
row                 document
column              field


Every document that you insert has a specific id called object Id

Q. Create a collection department with id and department name insert 4 records display all the records and find a record where department name is sales.

We don not delete the records but we do a soft delete where a boolean variable isActive is set to false.
Mongodb find has 2 parameters:
1. filters - select name, ge from tablename where age great than 20
2. projection - select name, age from tablename
By default object id is included in the output


Mongoose is an ODM(Object data mapping) it sits between your application and mongodb.
it helps to create schemas and convert schemas into models so that we can fire queries tot his models.

.env file contains sensitive information like connection string, secret keys
1. Add a file databse.js
2. Enter connection string in .env file
asyb abd await are yied to make sure that the code is executed in a synchronous manner.

async function is a function that returns a promise.

1.To perform CRUD operations first always establish a database connect
2. Create a schema convert it into a models
3. Export the model where the CRUD operations will be performed


assignment:
create an item table with item_id, item_name and rate.
1-> create an item schema and convert it into item(table)
2-> in app.js write crud

now we have the entire code in app.js /index.js but we usually use this code to start the server so we move the code to service file

MERN Stack
1. MongoDB - MQL 
2. Mongoose [Schema, Model, Query]
Traditionallly: MVC - MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER
[routes] [Controller] [Services(models)]->DB->JSON->POSTMAN
3. Js(ES6)+Node.js(library)
4. React.js

Backend - building APIs
JWT - JSON Web Token


Monolithic application has  a frontend and backend inn the same folder
REST full application or SAAS applicaion frontend is seperated from backend and connected using api layer.

tHINGS THAT ARE ADDED TO EXPRESS APPLICATION TO MAKE IT INTELLIGENT AND HANDLE VARIOUS REQUEST IS CALLED MIDDLEWARES